user-module/src/doc/index.adoc, before:

= UserModule
Arne Vandamme
2.0.0.RELEASE
:toc: left
:sectanchors:
:module-version: 2.0.0.RELEASE
:module-name: UserModule
:module-artifact: user-module
:module-url: https://foreach.atlassian.net/wiki/display/AX/UserModule
:application-info-url: https://foreach.atlassian.net/wiki/display/AX/ApplicationInfoModule
:spring-security-module-url: https://foreach.atlassian.net/wiki/display/AX/SpringSecurityModule

[copyright,verbatim]
--
Copyright (C) 2014-2017 +
[small]#Copies of this document may be made for your own use and for distribution to others, provided that you do not charge any fee for such copies and further provided that each copy contains this Copyright Notice, whether distributed in print or electronically.#
--

[abstract]
== About
...

Module website: {module-url}

:numbered:
== General information

=== Artifact
[source,xml,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
	<dependencies>
		<dependency>
			<groupId>com.foreach.across.modules</groupId>
			<artifactId>{module-artifact}</artifactId>
			<version>{module-version}</version>
		</dependency>
	</dependencies>
----

=== Module dependencies

{module-name} only has a required dependency on AcrossWebModule.

.Module dependencies
|===
|Module |Type |Description

|<<integration:adminweb-entity,EntityModule>>
|optional
|In combination with `AdminWebModule` this enables the management forms in the administration UI.
|===

=== Module settings

All properties start with the *userModule.* prefix.

|===
|Property |Type |Description |Default

|password-encoder
|`org.springframework.security.crypto.password.PasswordEncoder`
|Optional PasswordEncoder instance to be used.  Defaults to BCrypt if none is specified.
|

|use-email-as-username
|`boolean`
|Specifies whether to use the email for login and registration instead of username.
|_false_

|require-email-unique
|`boolean`
|Specifies whether the email field is unique, must be true if use-email-as-username is true.
|_false_

|enable-default-acls
|`boolean`
|Specifies whether default ACLs should be created via interceptors, such as for Groups.
Only relevant if SpringSecurityAclModule is active.
|_false_

|user-label-expression
|`String`
|SpEL expression to apply on the `User` instance when generating a pretty label (mainly for UI purposes).
Defaults to 'label' which means the `getLabel()` will be used.
|label

|===

== What's new in this version?
:numbered!:
=== 2.0.0.RELEASE

* Compatibility update with Spring 4.2 which replaces `CrudInvoker` with `RepositoryInvoker` from spring-data-commons.
* Introduction of `UserDirectory` object with a default `InternalUserDirectory` for storing `User` and `Group` objects in several <<integration:user-directories,user directories>>
* settings now support Spring configuration metadata
* `UserService`, `GroupService` and `MachinePrincipalService` have been refactored to implement `QueryDslPredicateExecutor` (breaking change)
* added `SecurityPrincipalLabelResolver` for `User`, `Group` and `MachinePrincipal`

=== 1.1.0.RELEASE
Initial public release available on http://search.maven.org/[Maven central].

:numbered:
== How {module-name} works

== User directories

[[integration:user-directories]]

The `UserModule` installs an `InternalUserDirectory` by default. This is where the default `admin` user resides.

It is possible to create your own `AuthenticationProvider` by implementing `UserDirectoryServiceProvider` and extending `AbstractUserInDirectoryAuthenticationProvider`.
The implementation of `UserDirectoryServiceProvider` generally creates the new instance of your `AbstractUserInDirectoryAuthenticationProvider` class.

Example implementation of `LdapUserDirectoryServiceProvider` used in the https://foreach.atlassian.net/wiki/display/AX/LdapModule[LdapModule]

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
public class LdapUserDirectoryServiceProvider implements UserDirectoryServiceProvider
{
	@Override
	public boolean supports( Class<? extends UserDirectory> userDirectoryClass ) {
		return LdapUserDirectory.class.isAssignableFrom( userDirectoryClass );
	}

	@Override
	public AuthenticationProvider getAuthenticationProvider( UserDirectory userDirectory ) {
		try {
			LdapUserDirectory ldapUserDirectory = (LdapUserDirectory) userDirectory;
			LdapConnector ldapConnector = ldapUserDirectory.getLdapConnector();
			LdapAuthenticationProvider ldapAuthenticationProvider = new LdapAuthenticationProvider();
			ldapAuthenticationProvider.setUserService( userService );
			ldapAuthenticationProvider.setUserDirectory( userDirectory );
			ldapAuthenticationProvider.setLdapContextSource( ldapConnector );
			ldapAuthenticationProvider.afterPropertiesSet();
			return ldapAuthenticationProvider;
		}
		catch ( Exception e ) {
			throw new RuntimeException( e );
		}
	}

	@Override
	public Validator getValidator( UserDirectory userDirectory,
	                               Class<? extends BasicSecurityPrincipal> securityPrincipalClass ) {
		return null;
	}
}
----

Example of the default InternalUserDirectoryAuthenticationProvider used in the https://foreach.atlassian.net/wiki/display/AX/LdapModule[LdapModule]

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
public class LdapAuthenticationProvider extends AbstractUserInDirectoryAuthenticationProvider
{
	@Override
	protected void additionalAuthenticationChecks( UserDetails userDetails,
	                                               UsernamePasswordAuthenticationToken authentication ) throws AuthenticationException {
		BindAuthenticator ldapAuthenticator = new BindAuthenticator( ldapContextSource );
		FilterBasedLdapUserSearch search = new FilterBasedLdapUserSearch( "", searchFilter,
		                                                                  ldapContextSource );
		ldapAuthenticator.setUserSearch( search );

		DirContextOperations dirContextOperations = ldapAuthenticator.authenticate( authentication );
		if( dirContextOperations == null ) {
			throw new BadCredentialsException( "Cannot authenticate user with LDAP" );
		}
	}

	@Override
	protected void doAfterPropertiesSet() throws Exception {
		Assert.isTrue( userDirectory instanceof LdapUserDirectory,
		               "Only LdapUserDirectory types are supported" );
	}

	@Override
	protected UserDetails buildUserDetails( User user,
	                                        UsernamePasswordAuthenticationToken authentication ) throws AuthenticationException {
		return user;
	}

	@Override
	public boolean supports( Class<?> authentication ) {
		return UsernamePasswordAuthenticationToken.class.isAssignableFrom( authentication );
	}
}

----

The `UserDirectory` class must also be extended, by providing a unique `@DiscriminatorValue` for your `UserDirectory`.
This is the sample implementation of `LdapUserDirectory` from the https://foreach.atlassian.net/wiki/display/AX/LdapModule[LdapModule]

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
@NotThreadSafe
@Entity
@DiscriminatorValue("ldap")
public class LdapUserDirectory extends UserDirectory
{
	@OneToOne(optional = false)
	@JoinColumn(name = "settings_id")
	private LdapConnector ldapConnector;

	public LdapConnector getLdapConnector() {
		return ldapConnector;
	}

	public void setLdapConnector( LdapConnector ldapConnector ) {
		this.ldapConnector = ldapConnector;
	}
}
----

Note the `settings_id` column, which can be used to optionally link your `UserDirectory` to another `@Entity` object in your module.

== Integration with other modules

[[integration:adminweb-entity]]
==== EntityModule
The `UserModule` configures all its domain objects in the `EntityRegistry` if the `EntityModule` is present.  Along with
the `AdminWebModule` this will also enable the administrative management controllers for those entities.

NOTE: By default the `Permission` and `PermissionGroup` entities are `hidden` from the admin UI and can only be managed through code.  If you
want to enable UI management of those entities, you can modify the `hidden` property using a custom `EntityConfigurer`.

NOTE: Make sure role names (Permission::name) are always in lowercase, as they are case sensitive and as such stored in the database.

Changing the labels in the admin web ui: add your own custom `SecurityPrincipalLabelResolver` with a higher priority (`@Order`).

Description
Creates a User domain model along with permission management.  Provides:
User datamodel with password encryption functionality (defaults to BCrypt)
Business objects: User, Role, Permission, PermissionGroup
Services: UserService, RoleService, PermissionService
Admin web interface for managing users and roles
Integration with SpringSecurityModule through a UserDetailsService

<dependency>
	<groupId>across-standard-modules</groupId>
	<artifactId>user-module</artifactId>
</dependency>
Module dependencies
Module	Type	Reason
AcrossHibernateModule	required
PropertiesModule	required
AdminWebModule	optional	If present: will provide admin controllers for user and role management.
SpringSecurityModule	extension	If present: will create a UserDetailsService and allow authentication and use of the permissions/roles.

Define an AcrossContext with the UserModule, SpringSecurityModule and AdminWebModule to quickly get up and running with an administrative web interface that allows user login, user management and authorization through user permissions.

Though the UserModule does not require the SpringSecurityModule to be present, it does depend on Spring security libraries for the PasswordEncoder and the UserDetails interface. The necessary Spring security jars should be present, but none of the services are required to be active.
Configuration
Installation
Upon installation a single default user and a set of default roles and permissions will be created:
permissions:
access administration
manage users
manage user roles
roles:
ROLE_ADMIN with permissions: access administration, manage users and manage user roles
ROLE_MANAGER with permissions: access administration, manage users
user with username admin, password admin and role ROLE_ADMIN
Password encryption
User passwords are encrypted using BCrypt by default.  This is done using a PasswordEncoder instance from Spring security.  You can provide the password encoder instance to use as a property when configuring the module (see example below).  Using a NoOpPasswordEncoder you can disable password encoding altogether.
Renaming database tables
UserModule exposes a SchemaConfiguration (see the example below) that allows you to rename the database tables if that would be required.  Note that this must be done before the first installation of the module.
Unless you have a good reason to do so, it is probably best to stick with the default SchemaConfiguration as this will reduce the chances of conflicts with future updates.
Example configuration
public UserModule userModule() {
	UserModule userModule = new UserModule();

	// Disable password encoding
	userModule.setProperty( UserModuleSettings.PASSWORD_ENCODER, NoOpPasswordEncoder.getInstance() );

	// Rename some database tables
	SchemaConfiguration schema = userModule.getSchemaConfiguration();
	schema.renameTable( UserSchemaConfiguration.TABLE_PERMISSION, "permissies" );
	schema.renameTable( UserSchemaConfiguration.TABLE_USER, "gebruikers" );

	return userModule;
}
User documentation
Exposed services
Services	Dependency	Description
UserService

RoleService

PermissionService

UserDetailsService	SpringSecurityModule	Implementation of the Spring security UserDetailsService.
CurrentUserProxy	SpringSecurityModule	Service allowing access to the User instance attached to the current thread.
Defining permissions
Other modules depending on the UserModule can use the RoleService and PermissionService to define their own permissions upon installation.  Permissions should be member of exactly one group, this means modules can easily define their own group(s) of permissions.  Groups make it easier to organize the administrative interface, but otherwise have no impact on permission handling.
@Installer(description = "Define demo permissions and assign them to the admin role.",
           phase = InstallerPhase.AfterModuleBootstrap)
public class DemoPermissionsInstaller
{
	private static Logger LOG = LoggerFactory.getLogger( DemoPermissionsInstaller.class );

	@Autowired
	private RoleService roleService;

	@Autowired
	private PermissionService permissionService;

	@InstallerMethod
	public void install() {
		createPermissionGroupAndPermissions();
		assignPermissionsToExistingRole();
	}

	private void createPermissionGroupAndPermissions() {
		// Register the permissions - a default group with these permissions will be created if not found
		permissionService.definePermission( "read something", "The user can read something.", "demo-permissions" );
		permissionService.definePermission( "write something", "The user can write something.", "demo-permissions" );
		// Update the newly created group with some more descriptive text
		PermissionGroup permissionGroup = permissionService.getPermissionGroup( "demo-permissions" );
		permissionGroup.setTitle( "Module: DemoWebModule" );
		permissionGroup.setDescription(
				"Custom permissions defined by the DemoWebModule to illustrate integration with the UserModule." );
		permissionService.save( permissionGroup );
	}

	private void assignPermissionsToExistingRole() {
		// Extend the admin role with the new permissions
		Role role = roleService.getRole( "ROLE_ADMIN" );
		if ( role != null ) {
			role.addPermission( "read something", "write something" );
			roleService.save( role );
		}
		else {
			LOG.warn(
					"ROLE_ADMIN does not appear to exist - the demo permissions have not been assigned to any role." );
		}
	}
}
Spring security integration
The User class exposes its permissions and roles as a set of GrantedAuthorities, meaning you can use authority checks in annotations or security filters if both the UserModule and SpringSecurityModule are activated.  Note that the term permission in Spring security context is used related to the ACL setup.  That is why you should use hasAuthority instead of hasPermission when checking for a permissions in Spring security expressions.
@RequestMapping("/restricted-page")
@PreAuthorize("hasAuthority('manage users')")
public String restricted() {
	// This controller method would only be called if the User has any role that defines the manage users permission
	...
}

As a general rule, applications should authorize on permissions and not on roles. This is contrary to most Spring security examples, but offers more flexibility in shifting permissions around without tying your application to specific user roles.

Custom security principal
If you want your application to authenticate against your own User concept, you can provide a custom security principal object by extending from the BasicSecurityPrincipal class and implementing the UserDetails interface. In case your application uses an encoding algorithm different from BCrypt, don't forget to configure your custom PasswordEncoder implementation as in the example above (see section Password Encryption).
Make sure to call setPrincipalName() in the setter method of the field that serves as the principal username.

Provide a SecurityPrincipalLabelResolver, see `ExpressionBasedSecurityPrincipalLabelResolver` for a commonly usable implementation.

UserDirectories
* deactive user directories
* defaultuserdirectorystrategy

Commit message:

- Switch to 3.0.0-SNAPSHOT - baseline to Across core 3.0.0 - Fix bug with security config: use @EnableGlobalAuthentication on SpringSecurityUserDetailsConfiguration

user-module/src/doc/index.adoc, after:

= UserModule
Arne Vandamme
3.0.0-SNAPSHOT
:toc: left
:sectanchors:
:module-version: 3.0.0-SNAPSHOT
:module-name: UserModule
:module-artifact: user-module
:module-url: https://foreach.atlassian.net/wiki/display/AX/UserModule
:application-info-url: https://foreach.atlassian.net/wiki/display/AX/ApplicationInfoModule
:spring-security-module-url: https://foreach.atlassian.net/wiki/display/AX/SpringSecurityModule

[copyright,verbatim]
--
Copyright (C) 2014-2017 +
[small]#Copies of this document may be made for your own use and for distribution to others, provided that you do not charge any fee for such copies and further provided that each copy contains this Copyright Notice, whether distributed in print or electronically.#
--

[abstract]
== About
...

Module website: {module-url}

:numbered:
== General information

=== Artifact
[source,xml,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
	<dependencies>
		<dependency>
			<groupId>com.foreach.across.modules</groupId>
			<artifactId>{module-artifact}</artifactId>
			<version>{module-version}</version>
		</dependency>
	</dependencies>
----

=== Module dependencies

{module-name} only has a required dependency on AcrossWebModule.

.Module dependencies
|===
|Module |Type |Description

|<<integration:adminweb-entity,EntityModule>>
|optional
|In combination with `AdminWebModule` this enables the management forms in the administration UI.
|===

=== Module settings

All properties start with the *userModule.* prefix.

|===
|Property |Type |Description |Default

|password-encoder
|`org.springframework.security.crypto.password.PasswordEncoder`
|Optional PasswordEncoder instance to be used.  Defaults to BCrypt if none is specified.
|

|use-email-as-username
|`boolean`
|Specifies whether to use the email for login and registration instead of username.
|_false_

|require-email-unique
|`boolean`
|Specifies whether the email field is unique, must be true if use-email-as-username is true.
|_false_

|enable-default-acls
|`boolean`
|Specifies whether default ACLs should be created via interceptors, such as for Groups.
Only relevant if SpringSecurityAclModule is active.
|_false_

|user-label-expression
|`String`
|SpEL expression to apply on the `User` instance when generating a pretty label (mainly for UI purposes).
Defaults to 'label' which means the `getLabel()` will be used.
|label

|===

== What's new in this version?
:numbered!:
=== 3.0.0-SNAPSHOT

* fix issues with Spring Security configuration in Across 3.0.0

=== 2.0.0.RELEASE

* Compatibility update with Spring 4.2 which replaces `CrudInvoker` with `RepositoryInvoker` from spring-data-commons.
* Introduction of `UserDirectory` object with a default `InternalUserDirectory` for storing `User` and `Group` objects in several <<integration:user-directories,user directories>>
* settings now support Spring configuration metadata
* `UserService`, `GroupService` and `MachinePrincipalService` have been refactored to implement `QueryDslPredicateExecutor` (breaking change)
* added `SecurityPrincipalLabelResolver` for `User`, `Group` and `MachinePrincipal`

=== 1.1.0.RELEASE
Initial public release available on http://search.maven.org/[Maven central].

:numbered:
== How {module-name} works

== User directories

[[integration:user-directories]]

The `UserModule` installs an `InternalUserDirectory` by default. This is where the default `admin` user resides.

It is possible to create your own `AuthenticationProvider` by implementing `UserDirectoryServiceProvider` and extending `AbstractUserInDirectoryAuthenticationProvider`.
The implementation of `UserDirectoryServiceProvider` generally creates the new instance of your `AbstractUserInDirectoryAuthenticationProvider` class.

Example implementation of `LdapUserDirectoryServiceProvider` used in the https://foreach.atlassian.net/wiki/display/AX/LdapModule[LdapModule]

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
public class LdapUserDirectoryServiceProvider implements UserDirectoryServiceProvider
{
	@Override
	public boolean supports( Class<? extends UserDirectory> userDirectoryClass ) {
		return LdapUserDirectory.class.isAssignableFrom( userDirectoryClass );
	}

	@Override
	public AuthenticationProvider getAuthenticationProvider( UserDirectory userDirectory ) {
		try {
			LdapUserDirectory ldapUserDirectory = (LdapUserDirectory) userDirectory;
			LdapConnector ldapConnector = ldapUserDirectory.getLdapConnector();
			LdapAuthenticationProvider ldapAuthenticationProvider = new LdapAuthenticationProvider();
			ldapAuthenticationProvider.setUserService( userService );
			ldapAuthenticationProvider.setUserDirectory( userDirectory );
			ldapAuthenticationProvider.setLdapContextSource( ldapConnector );
			ldapAuthenticationProvider.afterPropertiesSet();
			return ldapAuthenticationProvider;
		}
		catch ( Exception e ) {
			throw new RuntimeException( e );
		}
	}

	@Override
	public Validator getValidator( UserDirectory userDirectory,
	                               Class<? extends BasicSecurityPrincipal> securityPrincipalClass ) {
		return null;
	}
}
----

Example of the default InternalUserDirectoryAuthenticationProvider used in the https://foreach.atlassian.net/wiki/display/AX/LdapModule[LdapModule]

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
public class LdapAuthenticationProvider extends AbstractUserInDirectoryAuthenticationProvider
{
	@Override
	protected void additionalAuthenticationChecks( UserDetails userDetails,
	                                               UsernamePasswordAuthenticationToken authentication ) throws AuthenticationException {
		BindAuthenticator ldapAuthenticator = new BindAuthenticator( ldapContextSource );
		FilterBasedLdapUserSearch search = new FilterBasedLdapUserSearch( "", searchFilter,
		                                                                  ldapContextSource );
		ldapAuthenticator.setUserSearch( search );

		DirContextOperations dirContextOperations = ldapAuthenticator.authenticate( authentication );
		if( dirContextOperations == null ) {
			throw new BadCredentialsException( "Cannot authenticate user with LDAP" );
		}
	}

	@Override
	protected void doAfterPropertiesSet() throws Exception {
		Assert.isTrue( userDirectory instanceof LdapUserDirectory,
		               "Only LdapUserDirectory types are supported" );
	}

	@Override
	protected UserDetails buildUserDetails( User user,
	                                        UsernamePasswordAuthenticationToken authentication ) throws AuthenticationException {
		return user;
	}

	@Override
	public boolean supports( Class<?> authentication ) {
		return UsernamePasswordAuthenticationToken.class.isAssignableFrom( authentication );
	}
}

----

The `UserDirectory` class must also be extended, by providing a unique `@DiscriminatorValue` for your `UserDirectory`.
This is the sample implementation of `LdapUserDirectory` from the https://foreach.atlassian.net/wiki/display/AX/LdapModule[LdapModule]

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
@NotThreadSafe
@Entity
@DiscriminatorValue("ldap")
public class LdapUserDirectory extends UserDirectory
{
	@OneToOne(optional = false)
	@JoinColumn(name = "settings_id")
	private LdapConnector ldapConnector;

	public LdapConnector getLdapConnector() {
		return ldapConnector;
	}

	public void setLdapConnector( LdapConnector ldapConnector ) {
		this.ldapConnector = ldapConnector;
	}
}
----

Note the `settings_id` column, which can be used to optionally link your `UserDirectory` to another `@Entity` object in your module.

== Integration with other modules

[[integration:adminweb-entity]]
==== EntityModule
The `UserModule` configures all its domain objects in the `EntityRegistry` if the `EntityModule` is present.  Along with
the `AdminWebModule` this will also enable the administrative management controllers for those entities.

NOTE: By default the `Permission` and `PermissionGroup` entities are `hidden` from the admin UI and can only be managed through code.  If you
want to enable UI management of those entities, you can modify the `hidden` property using a custom `EntityConfigurer`.

NOTE: Make sure role names (Permission::name) are always in lowercase, as they are case sensitive and as such stored in the database.

Changing the labels in the admin web ui: add your own custom `SecurityPrincipalLabelResolver` with a higher priority (`@Order`).

Description
Creates a User domain model along with permission management.  Provides:
User datamodel with password encryption functionality (defaults to BCrypt)
Business objects: User, Role, Permission, PermissionGroup
Services: UserService, RoleService, PermissionService
Admin web interface for managing users and roles
Integration with SpringSecurityModule through a UserDetailsService

<dependency>
	<groupId>across-standard-modules</groupId>
	<artifactId>user-module</artifactId>
</dependency>
Module dependencies
Module	Type	Reason
AcrossHibernateModule	required
PropertiesModule	required
AdminWebModule	optional	If present: will provide admin controllers for user and role management.
SpringSecurityModule	extension	If present: will create a UserDetailsService and allow authentication and use of the permissions/roles.

Define an AcrossContext with the UserModule, SpringSecurityModule and AdminWebModule to quickly get up and running with an administrative web interface that allows user login, user management and authorization through user permissions.

Though the UserModule does not require the SpringSecurityModule to be present, it does depend on Spring security libraries for the PasswordEncoder and the UserDetails interface. The necessary Spring security jars should be present, but none of the services are required to be active.
Configuration
Installation
Upon installation a single default user and a set of default roles and permissions will be created:
permissions:
access administration
manage users
manage user roles
roles:
ROLE_ADMIN with permissions: access administration, manage users and manage user roles
ROLE_MANAGER with permissions: access administration, manage users
user with username admin, password admin and role ROLE_ADMIN
Password encryption
User passwords are encrypted using BCrypt by default.  This is done using a PasswordEncoder instance from Spring security.  You can provide the password encoder instance to use as a property when configuring the module (see example below).  Using a NoOpPasswordEncoder you can disable password encoding altogether.
Renaming database tables
UserModule exposes a SchemaConfiguration (see the example below) that allows you to rename the database tables if that would be required.  Note that this must be done before the first installation of the module.
Unless you have a good reason to do so, it is probably best to stick with the default SchemaConfiguration as this will reduce the chances of conflicts with future updates.
Example configuration
public UserModule userModule() {
	UserModule userModule = new UserModule();

	// Disable password encoding
	userModule.setProperty( UserModuleSettings.PASSWORD_ENCODER, NoOpPasswordEncoder.getInstance() );

	// Rename some database tables
	SchemaConfiguration schema = userModule.getSchemaConfiguration();
	schema.renameTable( UserSchemaConfiguration.TABLE_PERMISSION, "permissies" );
	schema.renameTable( UserSchemaConfiguration.TABLE_USER, "gebruikers" );

	return userModule;
}
User documentation
Exposed services
Services	Dependency	Description
UserService

RoleService

PermissionService

UserDetailsService	SpringSecurityModule	Implementation of the Spring security UserDetailsService.
CurrentUserProxy	SpringSecurityModule	Service allowing access to the User instance attached to the current thread.
Defining permissions
Other modules depending on the UserModule can use the RoleService and PermissionService to define their own permissions upon installation.  Permissions should be member of exactly one group, this means modules can easily define their own group(s) of permissions.  Groups make it easier to organize the administrative interface, but otherwise have no impact on permission handling.
@Installer(description = "Define demo permissions and assign them to the admin role.",
           phase = InstallerPhase.AfterModuleBootstrap)
public class DemoPermissionsInstaller
{
	private static Logger LOG = LoggerFactory.getLogger( DemoPermissionsInstaller.class );

	@Autowired
	private RoleService roleService;

	@Autowired
	private PermissionService permissionService;

	@InstallerMethod
	public void install() {
		createPermissionGroupAndPermissions();
		assignPermissionsToExistingRole();
	}

	private void createPermissionGroupAndPermissions() {
		// Register the permissions - a default group with these permissions will be created if not found
		permissionService.definePermission( "read something", "The user can read something.", "demo-permissions" );
		permissionService.definePermission( "write something", "The user can write something.", "demo-permissions" );
		// Update the newly created group with some more descriptive text
		PermissionGroup permissionGroup = permissionService.getPermissionGroup( "demo-permissions" );
		permissionGroup.setTitle( "Module: DemoWebModule" );
		permissionGroup.setDescription(
				"Custom permissions defined by the DemoWebModule to illustrate integration with the UserModule." );
		permissionService.save( permissionGroup );
	}

	private void assignPermissionsToExistingRole() {
		// Extend the admin role with the new permissions
		Role role = roleService.getRole( "ROLE_ADMIN" );
		if ( role != null ) {
			role.addPermission( "read something", "write something" );
			roleService.save( role );
		}
		else {
			LOG.warn(
					"ROLE_ADMIN does not appear to exist - the demo permissions have not been assigned to any role." );
		}
	}
}
Spring security integration
The User class exposes its permissions and roles as a set of GrantedAuthorities, meaning you can use authority checks in annotations or security filters if both the UserModule and SpringSecurityModule are activated.  Note that the term permission in Spring security context is used related to the ACL setup.  That is why you should use hasAuthority instead of hasPermission when checking for a permissions in Spring security expressions.
@RequestMapping("/restricted-page")
@PreAuthorize("hasAuthority('manage users')")
public String restricted() {
	// This controller method would only be called if the User has any role that defines the manage users permission
	...
}

As a general rule, applications should authorize on permissions and not on roles. This is contrary to most Spring security examples, but offers more flexibility in shifting permissions around without tying your application to specific user roles.

Custom security principal
If you want your application to authenticate against your own User concept, you can provide a custom security principal object by extending from the BasicSecurityPrincipal class and implementing the UserDetails interface. In case your application uses an encoding algorithm different from BCrypt, don't forget to configure your custom PasswordEncoder implementation as in the example above (see section Password Encryption).
Make sure to call setPrincipalName() in the setter method of the field that serves as the principal username.

Provide a SecurityPrincipalLabelResolver, see `ExpressionBasedSecurityPrincipalLabelResolver` for a commonly usable implementation.

UserDirectories
* deactive user directories
* defaultuserdirectorystrategy
