spring-security-acl-module/src/doc/index.adoc, before:

= SpringSecurityAclModule
Arne Vandamme
2.0.0.RELEASE
:toc: left
:sectanchors:
:module-version: 2.0.0.RELEASE
:module-name: SpringSecurityAclModule
:module-artifact: spring-security-acl-module
:module-url: https://foreach.atlassian.net/wiki/display/AX/SpringSecurityAclModule

[copyright,verbatim]
--
Copyright (C) 2014-2017 +
[small]#Copies of this document may be made for your own use and for distribution to others, provided that you do not charge any fee for such copies and further provided that each copy contains this Copyright Notice, whether distributed in print or electronically.#
--


:numbered:
== General information

=== Artifact
[source,xml,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
	<dependencies>
		<dependency>
			<groupId>com.foreach.across.modules</groupId>
			<artifactId>{module-artifact}</artifactId>
			<version>{module-version}</version>
		</dependency>
	</dependencies>
----

=== Module dependencies

.Module dependencies
|===
|Module |Type |Description

|`SpringSecurityModule`
|required
|Provides the basic security infrastructure.

|`AcrossHibernateJpaModule`
|optional
|Activates support for ACL security entities.

|`EntityModule`
|optional
|Enables the management forms for ACL security entities.

|===

=== Module settings
This module has no specific settings.

== About the SpringSecurityAclModule
The `SpringSecurityAclModule` enables Access Control Lists for managing permissions.  The core service for working
with the ACLs is the `AclSecurityService` and supports management of ACLs attached to `IdBasedEntity` instances,
seamlessly integrating with other standard modules.

=== Default parent ACL
The `AclSecurityService` optionally allows setting a default parent ACL (in the form of the `IdBasedEntity`
that owns the ACL).  The default parent is attached to any newly created ACL that does not have an explicit parent
specified.

=== ACL security entities
The `SpringSecurityAclModule` packs a domain model for ACL security entities.  These are abstract database entities
that serve no other purpose than attaching an ACL to them.  They optionally take another security entity as parent,
whose ACL will then also be the parent ACL.

The ACL security entity hierarchy exactly represents the backing ACL hierarchy.  ACL security entities are usually
only developer managed and by default require the *acl take ownership* permissions to manage them through the
administrative interface.

The standard `UserModule` provides a default installation of security entities, and sets the *system* security entity
for the default parent ACL.

=== Global permissions
The `SpringSecurityAclModule` defines 3 global permissions, these are available as constants in the `AclAuthorities` interface.

.Global permission overview
|===
|Permission |Description

|*acl take ownership*
|Allows the authenticated principal to take ownership of any ACL. Also the required permission to be able
to manage ACL security entities.

|*acl modify*
|Allows the authenticated principal to modify any ACL.  This includes adding and removing ACE records but
excludes changing ownership.

|*acl audit*
|Allows the authenticated principal to modify the auditing settings of an ACL.

|===

Commit message:

AXSSAM-7 added support for H2 database

spring-security-acl-module/src/doc/index.adoc, after:

= SpringSecurityAclModule
Arne Vandamme
2.0.1-SNAPSHOT
:toc: left
:sectanchors:
:module-version: 2.0.1-SNAPSHOT
:module-name: SpringSecurityAclModule
:module-artifact: spring-security-acl-module
:module-url: https://foreach.atlassian.net/wiki/display/AX/SpringSecurityAclModule

[copyright,verbatim]
--
Copyright (C) 2014-2017 +
[small]#Copies of this document may be made for your own use and for distribution to others, provided that you do not charge any fee for such copies and further provided that each copy contains this Copyright Notice, whether distributed in print or electronically.#
--

:numbered:
== General information

=== Artifact
[source,xml,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
	<dependencies>
		<dependency>
			<groupId>com.foreach.across.modules</groupId>
			<artifactId>{module-artifact}</artifactId>
			<version>{module-version}</version>
		</dependency>
	</dependencies>
----

=== Module dependencies

.Module dependencies
|===
|Module |Type |Description

|`SpringSecurityModule`
|required
|Provides the basic security infrastructure.

|`AcrossHibernateJpaModule`
|optional
|Activates support for ACL security entities.

|`EntityModule`
|optional
|Enables the management forms for ACL security entities.

|===

=== Module settings
This module has no specific settings.

== What's new in this version?
:numbered!:
=== 2.0.1-SNAPSHOT
* added support for H2 database

:numbered:
== About the SpringSecurityAclModule
The `SpringSecurityAclModule` enables Access Control Lists for managing permissions.  The core service for working
with the ACLs is the `AclSecurityService` and supports management of ACLs attached to `IdBasedEntity` instances,
seamlessly integrating with other standard modules.

=== Default parent ACL
The `AclSecurityService` optionally allows setting a default parent ACL (in the form of the `IdBasedEntity`
that owns the ACL).  The default parent is attached to any newly created ACL that does not have an explicit parent
specified.

=== ACL security entities
The `SpringSecurityAclModule` packs a domain model for ACL security entities.  These are abstract database entities
that serve no other purpose than attaching an ACL to them.  They optionally take another security entity as parent,
whose ACL will then also be the parent ACL.

The ACL security entity hierarchy exactly represents the backing ACL hierarchy.  ACL security entities are usually
only developer managed and by default require the *acl take ownership* permissions to manage them through the
administrative interface.

The standard `UserModule` provides a default installation of security entities, and sets the *system* security entity
for the default parent ACL.

=== Global permissions
The `SpringSecurityAclModule` defines 3 global permissions, these are available as constants in the `AclAuthorities` interface.

.Global permission overview
|===
|Permission |Description

|*acl take ownership*
|Allows the authenticated principal to take ownership of any ACL. Also the required permission to be able
to manage ACL security entities.

|*acl modify*
|Allows the authenticated principal to modify any ACL.  This includes adding and removing ACE records but
excludes changing ownership.

|*acl audit*
|Allows the authenticated principal to modify the auditing settings of an ACL.

|===
