ldap-module/src/doc/index.adoc, before:

= LdapModule
Arne Vandamme
1.0.1.RELEASE
:toc: left
:sectanchors:
:module-version: 1.0.1.RELEASE
:module-name: LdapModule
:module-artifact: ldap-module
:module-url: https://foreach.atlassian.net/wiki/display/AX/LdapModule
:admin-web-module-url: https://foreach.atlassian.net/wiki/display/AX/AdminWebModule
:entity-module-url: https://foreach.atlassian.net/wiki/display/AX/EntityModule
:user-module-url: https://foreach.atlassian.net/wiki/display/AX/UserModule

[copyright,verbatim]
--
Copyright (C) 2014-2017 +
[small]#Copies of this document may be made for your own use and for distribution to others, provided that you do not charge any fee for such copies and further provided that each copy contains this Copyright Notice, whether distributed in print or electronically.#
--

[abstract]
== About
The {module-name} provides a services for connecting to LDAP directories.
It provides a domain model for configuring LDAP connections and integrating them with an authentication layer.
If <<user-module-url,UserModule>> is also present support for synchronizing users and groups from LDAP will also be active.

Module website: {module-url}

:numbered:
== General information

=== Artifact
[source,xml,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
	<dependencies>
		<dependency>
			<groupId>com.foreach.across.modules</groupId>
			<artifactId>{module-artifact}</artifactId>
			<version>{module-version}</version>
		</dependency>
	</dependencies>
----

=== Module dependencies

|===
|Module |Type |Description

|AcrossWebModule
|required
|

|AcrossHibernateJpaModule
|required
|Required for persisting the domain model.

|{admin-web-module-url}[AdminWebModule]
|optional
|Enables the administration user interface for the LDAP entities (if EntityModule is also enabled).

|{entity-module-url}[EntityModule]
|optional
|Enables the administration user interface for the LDAP entities (if EntityModule is also enabled).

|{user-module-url}[UserModule]
|optional
|Activates support for synchronizing users and groups from LDAP.

|===
[[settings]]
=== Module settings
All properties start with the ldapModule. prefix.

|===
|Property |Type |Description |Default

|ldapModule.disableSynchronizationTask
|`Boolean`
| Enable or disable the ldap synchronization task for all user directories.
|_false_

|ldapModule.synchronizationTaskIntervalInSeconds
|`Long`
| The interval for the synchronization task in seconds.
|_300_ (5 minutes)

|===

== What's new in this version?
:numbered!:

=== 1.0.1.RELEASE
* Be more lenient when a user or group cannot be deleted
* Replace old apt-maven-plugin with maven-compiler-plugin for better integration with Intellij
* Added lombok annotations internally

=== 1.0.0.RELEASE
Initial public release available on http://search.maven.org/[Maven central].

:numbered:
== Configuration

Adding the dependency to {admin-web-module-url}[LdapModule] will automatically register a synchronization task which runs every 5 minutes.
The task will not run until an `LdapConnector` and `LdapUserDirectory` are created.

=== Configuration via AdminWebModule
The configuration of an `LdapConnector` and `LdapUserDirectory` is easiest done by using the {admin-web-module-url}[AdminWebModule].
After logging into the {admin-web-module-url}[AdminWebModule], create a new `LdapConnector` by using the navigation.

Currently, the LdapModule support following LDAP directories:

* https://directory.apache.org/apacheds/[Apache Directory Service 1.5]
* https://opends.java.net/[OpenDS]
* https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/bb742424.aspx[Microsoft Active Directory]

==== LdapConnector fields

|===
|Field |Description |Default

|Name
|A logical name for your connector
|

|Host name
|The hostname or IP address of your Active Directory
|

|Port
|The port of your Active Directory
|

|Ldap connector type
|The implementation of your Active Directory
|

|Read timeout
|Unused
|

|Search timeout
|How long an LDAP query may run before aborting (in milliseconds)
|0 = unlimited

|Connection timeout
|Unused: How long the socket should wait while attempting to create a connection and finally aborting (in milliseconds)
|

|Username
|The username used to bind to the active directory. For Microsoft Active Directory, the domain is not necessary and should be the "cn" of a user. For example "David Croft".
|

|Password
|The password used to bind to the active directory.
|

|Base dn
|The base tree where to start search. For example: dc=organisation,dc=com
|

|Additional user dn
|Unused: The base tree to look for users.
|

|Additional group dn
|Unused: The base tree to look for groups.
|
|===

.Note
- When using Microsoft Active Directory, use port 389 instead of 3268 (Global Catalog). This because the Global Catalog is read-only.


After creating an `LdapConnector` you can create an `LdapUserDirectory` and link this `LdapConnector` to it.

==== LdapUserDirectory fields

|===
|Field |Description |Default

|Ldap connector
|The ldap connector to which this User Directory is linked to
|

|Name
|A logical name for your User Directory
|

|Order
|The order in the tree of UserDirectoryServiceProviders
|

|Active
|If the User Directory is active and the synchronization should be executed
|false

|===

Commit message:

Switched to 1.0.2-SNAPSHOT Added H2, postgres and microsoft sql server drivers for tests

ldap-module/src/doc/index.adoc, after:

= LdapModule
Arne Vandamme
1.0.2-SNAPSHOT
:toc: left
:sectanchors:
:module-version: 1.0.2-SNAPSHOT
:module-name: LdapModule
:module-artifact: ldap-module
:module-url: https://foreach.atlassian.net/wiki/display/AX/LdapModule
:admin-web-module-url: https://foreach.atlassian.net/wiki/display/AX/AdminWebModule
:entity-module-url: https://foreach.atlassian.net/wiki/display/AX/EntityModule
:user-module-url: https://foreach.atlassian.net/wiki/display/AX/UserModule

[copyright,verbatim]
--
Copyright (C) 2014-2017 +
[small]#Copies of this document may be made for your own use and for distribution to others, provided that you do not charge any fee for such copies and further provided that each copy contains this Copyright Notice, whether distributed in print or electronically.#
--

[abstract]
== About
The {module-name} provides a services for connecting to LDAP directories.
It provides a domain model for configuring LDAP connections and integrating them with an authentication layer.
If <<user-module-url,UserModule>> is also present support for synchronizing users and groups from LDAP will also be active.

Module website: {module-url}

:numbered:
== General information

=== Artifact
[source,xml,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
	<dependencies>
		<dependency>
			<groupId>com.foreach.across.modules</groupId>
			<artifactId>{module-artifact}</artifactId>
			<version>{module-version}</version>
		</dependency>
	</dependencies>
----

=== Module dependencies

|===
|Module |Type |Description

|AcrossWebModule
|required
|

|AcrossHibernateJpaModule
|required
|Required for persisting the domain model.

|{admin-web-module-url}[AdminWebModule]
|optional
|Enables the administration user interface for the LDAP entities (if EntityModule is also enabled).

|{entity-module-url}[EntityModule]
|optional
|Enables the administration user interface for the LDAP entities (if EntityModule is also enabled).

|{user-module-url}[UserModule]
|optional
|Activates support for synchronizing users and groups from LDAP.

|===
[[settings]]
=== Module settings
All properties start with the ldapModule. prefix.

|===
|Property |Type |Description |Default

|ldapModule.disableSynchronizationTask
|`Boolean`
| Enable or disable the ldap synchronization task for all user directories.
|_false_

|ldapModule.synchronizationTaskIntervalInSeconds
|`Long`
| The interval for the synchronization task in seconds.
|_300_ (5 minutes)

|===

== What's new in this version?
:numbered!:

=== 1.0.2-SNAPSHOTT
* Added H2, postgres and sql server drivers for tests

=== 1.0.1.RELEASE
* Be more lenient when a user or group cannot be deleted
* Replace old apt-maven-plugin with maven-compiler-plugin for better integration with Intellij
* Added lombok annotations internally

=== 1.0.0.RELEASE
Initial public release available on http://search.maven.org/[Maven central].

:numbered:
== Configuration

Adding the dependency to {admin-web-module-url}[LdapModule] will automatically register a synchronization task which runs every 5 minutes.
The task will not run until an `LdapConnector` and `LdapUserDirectory` are created.

=== Configuration via AdminWebModule
The configuration of an `LdapConnector` and `LdapUserDirectory` is easiest done by using the {admin-web-module-url}[AdminWebModule].
After logging into the {admin-web-module-url}[AdminWebModule], create a new `LdapConnector` by using the navigation.

Currently, the LdapModule support following LDAP directories:

* https://directory.apache.org/apacheds/[Apache Directory Service 1.5]
* https://opends.java.net/[OpenDS]
* https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/bb742424.aspx[Microsoft Active Directory]

==== LdapConnector fields

|===
|Field |Description |Default

|Name
|A logical name for your connector
|

|Host name
|The hostname or IP address of your Active Directory
|

|Port
|The port of your Active Directory
|

|Ldap connector type
|The implementation of your Active Directory
|

|Read timeout
|Unused
|

|Search timeout
|How long an LDAP query may run before aborting (in milliseconds)
|0 = unlimited

|Connection timeout
|Unused: How long the socket should wait while attempting to create a connection and finally aborting (in milliseconds)
|

|Username
|The username used to bind to the active directory. For Microsoft Active Directory, the domain is not necessary and should be the "cn" of a user. For example "David Croft".
|

|Password
|The password used to bind to the active directory.
|

|Base dn
|The base tree where to start search. For example: dc=organisation,dc=com
|

|Additional user dn
|Unused: The base tree to look for users.
|

|Additional group dn
|Unused: The base tree to look for groups.
|
|===

.Note
- When using Microsoft Active Directory, use port 389 instead of 3268 (Global Catalog). This because the Global Catalog is read-only.


After creating an `LdapConnector` you can create an `LdapUserDirectory` and link this `LdapConnector` to it.

==== LdapUserDirectory fields

|===
|Field |Description |Default

|Ldap connector
|The ldap connector to which this User Directory is linked to
|

|Name
|A logical name for your User Directory
|

|Order
|The order in the tree of UserDirectoryServiceProviders
|

|Active
|If the User Directory is active and the synchronization should be executed
|false

|===
